On-Orbit Servicing
Valuable but hard. Four main tasks: inspect, repair, repurpose, remove.
Aercam - propellant using inspector. Phoenix - mechanical grappler based repurpose

Contactless Actuation
Four other options (Clockwise from upper left)
EMFF - electromagnets
Flux Pinning - permanent magnets and superconductors
Lasers - potential wells
Coulomb Tethers - static electricity
Everything but lasers requires compliant systems. Lasers too small

EC Force Applications
trash separation 
active damping and braking
Mag lev - recent kickstarter

Modeling Eddy-current forces
Critical for design, path planning, control
Hard, many specialized ways to do it

Governing equations
Start with maxwell
Changing magnetic field causes an electric field
Changing electric field also causes a magnetic field
No magnetic monopoles, so the currents have to form a loop
Current loops depend on conductive material
Magnetic vector potential
Solve for the vector potential from the electric field (see how tangled this is?)
Combine all of the above to get a magnetic potential propigation - form of 3d heat equation
Assuming A, use Maxwell's Stress Tensor to find Force (big assumption)

Dynamic Solution
How do you find A in a useful way? Decouple surface and magnetic field.
Paudel Bird solution - take spatial fourier transform of the field, 
Gamma depends on the surface
B depends only on magnet
Needs to be generalized further when a can be in any orientation
Deal with in 3 ways:
full solution for Fz (slow)
splines (less slow)
fit (fast)

Generating Eddy-Current Forces
Goal: verify force model for spacecraft actuation and compare to other options

Air Track Experiments
Setup in uppder right. From above. Magnet on either side of v shaped plate. Forces tangential to surface. Constrained to 1d motion
Video from the side - controlled by hand

Air Track Experiments: Results
Motor speeds: dashed lines
Force on cart: red line
increase at top due to filtering error

Contactless Actuator Comparisons
Specific force - force per watt
Eddy currents dominate other options

Linear and nonlinear behavior
From the model:
At low speeds, normal force ~0 and tangential force ~linear
Notice increase in normal force at high range - this matters a lot 

Planar Inspection
Zoom out from characterizing forces to applications.
Major Contributions

Goal: Control across flat surface
Assume constrained to plane 
Layout - notice needing axes that aren't parallel to get torque control. Could do it with two actuators, three to be fully actuated.

Coupler-Augmented Dynamics
Abstract each coupler to an actuator rigidly attached at some distance from CoM. Notice that the design assumes some sort of arms. 
This model assumes nice dynamics and a linear map between inputs and forces to get a handle on the world 

Inspector Simulation
TODO: add labels to plot 
position,heading,control - all using real values and saturating at 1000 rad/s

Inspection path
follows follows 7 waypoints with lqr gains 

inspection control
Main thought: controller can constrain to a reasonable path using real values 
TODO: make a diagram of the swath that it can cover for results

detumbling
Main thought:

rotation sensing
Main thought:
magnet can detect target spin speed through torque on shaft. Important because tumbling often unknown.
TODO - equation?

lyapunov stability
Main thought:
A magnet-tumbling object system is stable in the sense of lyapunov
conditions:
-way to hold magnet still
-break magnet symmetry with at least three magnets

Todo?: equation?

Active Detumbling
Main thought:
Magnet can speed up detumbling by spinning contrary to target motion. Use info from 1 and 2.
Todo?: equation?
Todo?: should detumbling go before 2d inspection? more logical flow from inspection--> primitives

Motion Primitives
Main thought:
Need different control laws for different configurations and different movements

Planar vs. Out-of-Plane Motion
Main thought: 
Very different requirements for moving in a plane vs. out of the plane

The Four Motion Primitives 
Main thought:
There are four motion primitives: 
-Planar Translation
-Planar rotation
-oop translation
-oop rotation
Composing them can yield 6-DOF motion control

Planar Motion:
Main thought:
Conceptually easier: similar to differential drive. Magnet axes parallel to plane. 

Planar Experiment Setup
Main thought: 
Note magnet axes parallel to plane

Planar Translation: Simulation
Main Thought:
goal is to have rotation-free translation
forward and backward - larger force than experiments because speed is higher
y force and torque are due to the plates meshing
simulations are to give viewer a sense of the primitive's essence

Planar Translation: experiment
Plate and inspector in lower right corner. 

Planar Rotation: Simulation
Goal is to have translation-free rotation

Planar rotation: experiment
Rotate right and then left. 
Drift is due to coupler asymmetry 

Out-of-Plane Motion
TODO make link to original force slide
Takes advantage of tangential forces to control dynamics about axes parallel to the surface

Oop experiment setup. 
Two couplers w/ axes parallel to curve. Curve matches ISS.

OOP Translation: Simulation
Note that the force vectors from each coupler are along the surface.
Danger: if you spin too fast, the vectors separate from the surface

Out-of-Plane Translation: experiment
Screams for closed loop control

OOP rotation: simulation
Even in a perfect environment there is inevitable coupling between the rotation and translation

Zone of Safety:
The oop experiments show that you can get too close - velocity prevents you from creating enough force to return
And too far - velocity prevents you from ever producing enough force to get back 
Allowed: 'jump' from one target to the other.

Multi-Primative Trajectory: Setup
Need 6 static couplers so that it can still control out-of-plane motion oncerotation happened

Mutli-Primative Trajectory: Phases
1 - translate in +z
2 - rotate about x
3 - translate in x
4 - translate in y
5 - reorient about z

Multi-Primitive Trajectory: Results 1
Phase 1: initial input spike to push in z direction, then turn on feedback control. Note the increase in x position.
Phase 2: long roll reorientation, note coupling between y and roll

Multi-Primitive Trajectory: Results 2 
phase 3: x repositioning
phase 4: y translation 
phase 5: very tiny increase in yaw, but important to keep the couplers aligned correctly 

Probabilistic Design and control
Raises the question - is the hand designed approach best?
Intuition is hard. New tools enable automatic robust-ish control

Target systems
Multi query - don't know exact trajectory profile at design time
High dimensional - inspector state has at least 12 dimensions: many techniques that work at lower dimensions fail
Complex Dynamics - actuator saturation means a lot of controllability analysis fails, nonlinearities mean you can't just put a global controller on, state-dependent control means that not all states are equal

Algorithm
While loop until convergnce conditions
1 - create a design: can be done randomly, genetic algorithms
2 - create a bunch of lqr blobs and then add them and their level sets to the controller:this is how the inspector can stabalize itself. Note that 
3 - connect all unconnected nodes - this is how you know how to plan paths and which controlers to use
4 - check the total volume of the lqr blobs: proxy for controllable volume

Algorithm: Output Example
L 2d projections of 12 d stable regions
R connection roadmap between different nodes. Bold line is path between them.

Algorithm-Human Comparison
Note the emergent performance of the straight down leg. Possibly suggests 4 actuators is unecessary. 

Algorithm-Baseline Comparison
Convergence towards optimal pend
